The recent shooting at the Planned Parenthood in Colorado Springs led Cara and I to think about the conversations that were going on around the organization in the Twittersphere. We tried out a few search terms and looked for interactions with specific accounts, and we found that there was a significant amount of activity going on around [@PPAct](https://twitter.com/ppact), the Twitter account for the Planned Parenthood Action Fund, a non-profit that engages in advocacy and education around women's health. The majority of the conversations, however, simply mentioned (@’ed) the @PPAct account rather than occurred in reply to a tweet made by the Planned Parenthood Action Fund account. Our TAGS configuration came about from searching for the term ["PPACT"](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1uYbl8gVTSljD-sYJ7y6nxyQyINhHPCzisuqa-_e5O7Y/edit#gid=400689247) under the search/tweets setting. The tweets we archived all occurred on the same day, December 4th, starting at 3AM and hitting the limit by 9PM. 

Looking through the discussions, the most forceful conversations were simply reproducing conventional arguments around abortion: the ethics of terminating a pregnancy, the nature of the services Planned Parenthood offers--e.g. cancer screenings and other forms of health care, and the rights of women to have control oover their own bodies. We were surprised at how few of the Tweets referenced the recent shootings. I tried to search for tweets that might be in some way responding to the shooting in Colorado Springs, but I had little success. Only 20 of the nearly 3,000 tweets we collected used the hashtag #IStandWithPP. While there were 26 that used the word "guns" in the text of the tweet, a fair number of them were actually pro-gun and anti-abortion. One example comes from a prolific conservative user--a self-proclaimed "Top Conservative" as well as "Christian Conservative" of Twitter (#tcot and #ccot, respectively), [@MrsCaliBlonde](https://twitter.com/MrsCaliBlonde): 

[You cannot be a vegetarian..

Against animal cruelty..

Against guns..

and still be okay with @PPact 

They kill babies.

#tcot #ccot #PJNET](https://twitter.com/MrsCaliBlonde/statuses/672672960201682944)

At first I was puzzled as to why so much of the conversation seemed to have so little to do with the recent shootings. After looking more closely at some of the tweets, however, the topics of debate started to make sense. First, our tweets were retrieved the day after the [Senate passed a bill defunding Planned Parenthood](http://www.npr.org/2015/12/03/458304236/senate-expected-to-pass-bill-to-defund-planned-parenthood-repeal-health-law). This, naturally, shifted some of the conversation away from the shooting, which had happened a week ago at that point. A second factor that explained our results was the [#Solidarity](https://istandwithpp.org/solidarity) movement happening the following day (the 5th) around the country. As the @PPAct account focuses on activism, it is not surprising that much of the conversations going on that involved PPAct were promoting solidary events and vigils. However, as the latter explanation suggests, a lack of explicit citations of the shooting in Colorado Springs does not signify the absence of engagement with the incident.

It was perhaps bad timing for us with respect to our intentions for the TAGS project; on the other hand, the quick shift in online debates is likely not to be unexpected when dealing with an organization given to contentious arguments such as Planned Parenthood. Moreover, these events do not exist in separation from each other. [Republican Senator James Lankford said from the floor](http://www.npr.org/2015/12/03/458304236/senate-expected-to-pass-bill-to-defund-planned-parenthood-repeal-health-law), “Individuals who speak out for the life of children shouldn't suddenly be silenced by being screamed down because an insane person does a shooting in a clinic”. And, as discussed above, organizers used the @PPAct account to promote pro-Planned Parenthood events.

One unfortunate conclusion we can draw from the seeming lack of interest in engaging with the shooting in Colorado Springs is that mass shootings have become so commonplace that they are unable to hold people’s attention for long, The shooting in [San Bernardino, California](http://www.npr.org/sections/thetwo-way/2015/12/03/458277103/san-bernardino-shootings-what-we-know-one-day-after) occurred only a few days after the Planned Parenthood shooting. Conversations from our collection of Tweets saw connections being made between the two: some pro-choice users were angered that the more recent shooting had taken away coverage of an important woman’s issue; some on the right argued the opposite, suggesting that the San Bernardino shooting received less attention from officials. Regardless of whatever comments were made about the shooting, the majority of the discussion derived from the conventional divide in perspectives towards the act of terminating a pregnancy. Another conclusion we can draw for this data story is that if there is one thing that can always be counted on, regardless of what the crisis of the day may be, it is the limitless energy with which two people on the Internet can have the same argument without getting anywhere.

Finally, one unexpected discovery that came up in the TAG data perhaps worth mentioning is that a Twitter user may end up listed twice on the pivot table. This ended up happening when trying to organize the users by their follower count. The @PPAct account added a new follower during the period in which the tweets were being collected. Therefore, the same handle shows up twice in Pivot Table 4. It is likely nothing more than a fun curiosity that arises from the nature of how the data is displayed; however I like to imagine that it might have some potentially more substantive consequences.
