Bickoff, Kyle
Dec 9, 2015
Final Project
#San Berna(r)dino—“Muslim,” “Islam,” “ISIS” and Shifting Narratives on Twitter


My partner, Maggie, and I chose to work with the hashtag #SanBernardino, which has captured communications that (most often) refer to the shooting on December 2, 2015. My partner and I collected data during a 15 minute period on the evening of on December 3, 2015, which accumulated over 2,000 tweets in that short time alone.

Let me try to speak directly to what the data tells us, rather than trying to ascribe my own narrative. The collection consists of 2,178 individual tweets. Of those tweets, 1,987 are tweeted by twitter users that primarily use the English language. Of the entire collection, 8 users have recorded GPS coordinates—1 tweet was tweeted from San Bernardino, and the other 7 come from FL, TX, KY, CA (San Francisco). 1,724 of the collection total are retweets (a very significant proportion), which are very largely retweets from major news sources. What I would point out here is that by retweeting a news source, a user is both retweeting a mainstream news outlet’s narrative as well as citing a source for the purposes of legitimizing the accuracy of the tweet. In the collection there are 118 mentions of the term “muslim” (a rate of about 5.4%) and 126 mentions of the term “islam” (a rate of about 5.8%). The term “Teaparty” or “Tea Party” is mentioned 12 times (a rate of about 0.6%), which was surprisingly lower than I expected.

It is important for me to also speak to the formal timeline of events related to the shooting in San Bernardino, which factor into my own interest in the timeline. (see http://www.sbsun.com/general-news/20151203/timeline-how-the-san-bernardino-shooting-unfolded and http://www.sbsun.com/general-news/20151203/san-bernardino-shootings-possibly-terrorist-related-president-obama-says) 
•	On December 2nd at about 11:00am two gunmen arrive and kill 14 individuals, wounding another 21. 
•	At about 3pm police have a shootout with two armed individuals in their SUV, killing both. 
•	At 8:30 pm the Los Angeles Council on American-Islamic Relations holds a press conference, which condemns the violence. A this point one family member (Syed Farook’s sister) apologizes publicly on behalf of the family.
•	At 10:00pm Syed Farook and Tashfeen Malik are identified as the shooters that were killed by police.
•	On December 3 at 8:00am San Bernardino police announce that the FBI is investigating the shooting.
•	At about 9:00am on December 3, President Obama announces that the shooting is possibly “terrorist-related”

I would like to speak briefly about some of the additional work I’ve done in relation to the San Bernardino shootings. I’ve collected two additional data sets on the date of December 9th, 2015. Those data sets are #SanBernardino, as well as the misspelling, #SanBernadino. In the first collection #San Bernardino (of 2949 tweets), the term “muslim” is mentioned 509 times and “islam” is mentioned 370 times (rates of 17.3% and 12.55% respectively). In the second collection, with a size of 2965 tweets, the misspelling #SanBernadino uncovered the term “muslim” 800 times and “islam” 567 times (rates of 26.9% and 19.1% respectively). I would direct the reader’s close attention to the notable increase of the rates in the misspelling.

Now, I will speak more about my interpretation of these datasets and leave a few questions open for the reader. First, I would like to note the significant shift in the narrative—even my first data collection, which occurred the evening after the events, occurred after the shooters’ names and religious identities were revealed. Yet, at this point, their affiliations with the terms “muslim” and “islam” were tweeted about at a fairly low rate of about 5-6%. During this time, heated rhetoric in the political sphere (by Donald Trump among others) has turned the debate about the shooting into fiery and aggressive rhetoric aimed at injuring Muslim Americans. Another term, “ISIS” was captured 61 times (at a rate of 2.8%) in my first collection, 264 times in “SanBernardino” (a rate of 8.9%), and 311 times in “SanBernadino” (a rate of 10.5%). The term “Terrorism” follows a similar pattern. I would like to note that in all of these terms, “muslim,” “islam,” and “isis” the terms that link the Islamic faith to the concept of terrorism has risen drastically. Moreover, the misspelling of “SanBernadino” has in all three scenarios, shown the most fiery rhetoric. It is impossible for me to know the answers to these questions without much more extensive research, but could the misspelling be linked to education level, perhaps even higher education, of the twitter users? Or, can it be traced to geolocational data that instead speaks to people who are located near the greater Los Angeles area, and might be more likely to know the correct spelling based on their proximity? Can it speak to whether a twitter user’s first exposure to these news events over an aural means (radio/podcast/listening to television) or a textually rich means (online/print media)? It could also be the product of many other factors but these are merely a few questions I will leave opren for the reader. 

The narrative shift in the rhetoric embedded within these collections is apparent. I believe there are a great many narratives in place, where some narratives become more vocalized and rise, while others fall, but in an event like this there is never one narrative alone. The question remains: why do these narrative shifts occur? I believe that the significant amount of retweets from mainstream news outlets has exerted a powerful influence on the public perception of these events. I will note that the “echo chamber” effect may be quite visible here—that is a situation in which “beliefs are amplified or reinforced by transmission and repetition inside an "enclosed" system, where different or competing views are censored, disallowed or otherwise underrepresented” (Wikipedia). I would argue that that more nuanced narratives tend to be disadvantaged online, particularly on platforms of brevity like Twitter. Fiery, politicized, and often instigating language is employed publicly by current demagogues, the likes of Donald Trump, as well as mainstream news outlets that appeal to popular beliefs. Mainstream news narratives have driven a fury of articles at online news sites (and indeed have benefited from increased page visits) and views across news channels (and increased commercial “impressions”). Let me add—there is no ‘conspiracy’ and no ‘cover-up’ here—what I evidence is capitalism at its best. This content speaks to the conversations that are occurring at a time when news narratives become few and mainstream beliefs becomes limited in their diversity, a time when voters fears can be easily appealed to, particularly so when their fears and desires have a lessened variety, and are becoming ever more predictable.
