Like any word that encompasses a personal viewpoint, “feminism” is a generalizing term. Some understand that there are many different ways of expressing feminism, but many see all feminists as the same. #Feminist does not only draw those who are proponents of feminist issues. Many of the tweets that stood out to me in the data set were the negative responses to feminism. One such response read “Thank you. #WomenAgainstFeminism. Your tweets relieve a lot of my stress/worry about people ignoring the vulgar actions of #Feminist women” (ID#673746). While this is not the most vitriolic tweet, this tweet does something interesting. Many anti-feminists try to take over the tag by simply using the tag in a negative tweet. Here, the user juxtaposed the tag “feminist” with a tag for an anti-feminist group. Similarly, another tweet goes so far as to use #feminist next to #MRA. Other tweets lose their subtlety entirely and use tags such as “KillAllMen” and “Antifeminists.” By tagging “feminist” with these other concepts, anti-feminists try to co-opt the feminist narrative. These other tags allow them to reach like-minded people searching for the other tag, while also appearing when someone searches for the hashtag “feminist.” The anti-feminists tweets now become a part of the overall picture that helps define what is it to tweet #feminist.

The most pervasive of the anti-feminist tweets were from the users “pussyfetishstl” and “girlslikesperm.” These are porn pages ran by the same people and had fifty-seven tweets in the data set together. While girlslikesperm coupled the “feminist” tag with #cumshot, pussyfetishstl used the alternative tag “slutshaming.” Extra tags were not the only attachments to their tweets. While the data-set to us appears as a spreadsheet, an ordinary user would be violated by sexually-explicit photographs on Twitter. Other attachments such as articles and videos need to be clicked on and the user has agency in their participation. These pictures serve to be a visual assault as it does not allow the user to choose whether he/she sees the image or not. If these images only had the #feminist, a polite spin would be sex-positivity and female agency in choosing an expression of sexuality. However, the tags #cumshot and #slutshaming reinforce that these users want to humiliate women, not empower them. While trying to undermine it, they serve to reinforce the necessity of a movement like feminism.

Not all negative inserts want to annihilate feminism as a concept. Some did recognize that a feminist’s core value is equality. It happens to be the word “feminist” leaves something to be desired in some people especially with the connotations that have become associated with it (re: man-hating). One user writes “I believe in gender equality where both are respected &amp; acknowledged. That makes me #egalitarian &amp; not a #feminist” (ID#673911). Another, less eloquent, but more retweeted post used the tag “equalism.” While these seem like positive positions, these tweets still try to negate positive-feminist tags. By insisting on terms like “egalitarian” and “equalism,” these users ignore that patriarchal ideals have dominated the cultural sphere for centuries and the term “feminist” reminds people it is women who lack equality. These are probably the most insidious inserts into the feminist narrative as they disguise their negative attributes.

data-set URL:
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1cpSB5p_bnBL0DEmL2wfRmWbOk1JEP9ejmyX7smD9E7k/edit?ts=56665006#gid=400689247
