For Trent and my shared data set, we selected the Twitter timeline of author Salman Rushdie.  Our logic was that, due to Rushdie's recent publication of a new book, as well as his highly-visible status as a public figure, fruitful information could be gained from observing his interactions on social media.  Therefore, we ran TAGS to collect tweets from his timeline (https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1HYqf90xV5uRodL93u7deOYw-Y_qqrRe0LHY-gLXhNQU/edit#gid=400689247&vpid=A204). For my part, I chose to focus on his interactions with others through the platform.  I noticed immediately that Rushdie frequently retweets others' posts on which he might wish to comment rather than replying directing to them, but using the TAGS analytics, I chose to focus on the relatively few times he did reply directly to another user.  I was aware that by limiting myself to replies, I would be excluding a large portion of Rushdie's tweets, but I felt that in a data set with several different themes at work (publicity for the novel/appearances, as well as personal/political discussions), it would be valuable to see what role the specific feature of replies seems to have within the larger, more complex whole of the data set.    

I created a pivot table with the user's screenname, the date of Rushdie's reply, the ID of the tweet (so I can access the original conversations), and the text of the tweet (or tweets) he sent to them (that link is here: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1HYqf90xV5uRodL93u7deOYw-Y_qqrRe0LHY-gLXhNQU/edit#gid=1579104395&vpid=A1). I saw that there were only 44 users Rushdie replied directly to stretching all the way back to the beginning of this year (and once, he replied to one of his own previous tweets).  Perhaps not surprisingly, these replies were less focused on publicity for his books (that was mostly accomplished through retweets or tweets originating from Rushdie announcing appearances, etc.).  A few were personal, i.e. thanking people for hosting events or for complimenting his work, and one interaction with rapper Heems (Twitter handle: HIMANSHU) which indicated that the two had planned a face-to-face meet-up at which Heems did not materialize (lines 68-73 of the pivot table), and perhaps are real-life acquaintances, especially considering that Rushdie seems to have access to Heems’s cell phone number and tried to reach him that way. 

However, looking at the text of the replies, I would categorize a large amount of them as related to Rushdie’s life as a public figure, including his passionate defense of freedom of expression; a number of them appear to be conversations he had with followers after the Charlie Hebdo shooting in Paris.  Very few of the people with whom Rushdie interacts have anything like the number of followers he does. After Rushdie’s banter with an account entitled “SarahPalinTWIT,” (lines 122-127 of the pivot table), user "foomandoonian" points this out to him, saying, “When you fight a dumb parody account with 300 followers, you lose.” Rushie replies, “it’s called fun, you idiot” (lines 47-49). Foomandoonian later complained on his own account that after Rushdie’s dismissive tweet, he’d also gotten a handful of critical comments from Rushdie’s other followers, highlighting the imbalance of social capital between Rushdie and the people to whom he replies. 

Perhaps his interaction with “FunkyA1ien” back in May explains his motivations. When FunkyA1ien points out that Rushdie’s defense of Charlie Hebdo’s right to freedom of expression is “falling upon deaf ears. Or the ears of those suffering cognitive dissonance,” Rushdie replies, “Perhaps, but there are almost a million of you here, and I hope some of you at least are listening” (See line 58 of the pivot table).  While seeing Rushdie’s infamous strong personality at work on Twitter was fun (his brief but strongly-worded reply to FKhan123, who asked if he intentionally offended Muslims to make a name for himself, is on line 37), the analytics I ran on his account ultimately showed me something much more interesting: how Rushdie mediates his role as a politically-charged public figure through his use of the Twitter platform.  Rushdie wants to ensure that his political views are not misrepresented, even when this misrepresentation comes from someone less famous and with less social capital whom he could easily ignore.  He seems compelled to pursue these seemingly silly battles precisely because he is aware of his own visibility and influence; he hopes that some of the people who follow him (out of the 1.1 million of them) are in fact “listening.” Rushdie’s particular take on Twitter, especially Twitter replies, shows an author supplementing his real-world advocacy with statements on social media.  For an author who has always been passionately vocal about his beliefs and ideas, Twitter is more than simply a platform to promote his books or discuss social engagements: it is an arena for public discourse, one in which Rushdie remains, as ever, determined to engage.  

Bonus: As the result of an unfortunate typo, I discovered that there is in fact a "Salmon Rushdie" Twitter account, which describes itself as "Noted author and anadromous fish of Indian descent."  This has no particular bearing on the data set, but perhaps it stands as a reminder of the more whimsical nature Twitter can sometimes possess.  
