MATT: Filipa, this is a great example of using the relatively limited capabilities TAGS puts at your disposal to tease some actual insight out of a small and more or less arbitrary data set. You make good use of the pivot tables, using them as stepping stones in the larger analysis. And the analysis of how he uses different languages in his tweets is especially interesting. Nicely done.

I collected the username data for Cristiano Ronaldo's twitter (@cristiano) to explore how the famous soccer player interacts with his followers. Ronaldo has nearly 40 million followers, and I wanted to know how he engages this oppotunity for massive publicity. Though I am by no means an excel expert, I was able to make a series of pivot tables that isolate usernames, time/date, and text of tweets for further analysis. The original spreadsheet and the accompanying pivot tables are collected on a google sheet entitled "Twitter Scraping Ronaldo," which my partner (Michael) has shared with Matt and Ed. There is also a link at the bottom.

First, to see how Cristiano Ronaldo engages with his followers on twitter, I made a pivot table of the replies to each username, which I called "replies to username" on the spreadsheet. At first glance, it seems like Ronaldo spends some time responding directly to his fans. From approximately 800 tweets, 77 were replies to other twitter users, or about one for every ten tweets. By creating a "value" column, I discovered that Ronaldo rarely replies to the same user twice. In a space of nearly two years, Ronaldo only tweeted the same user -- JensonButton -- more than once. JensonButton's user page indicates that he is a racecar driver based in Monaco with his own massive twitter following of over 2 million. This user's visibility may be a reason why Ronaldo engaged in a conversation with him, rather than responding once to a tweet, which is his apparent habit. From this evidence, it seems that Ronaldo aims for scope over depth when interacting with his followers. He prefers to send single tweets to as many followers as possible, rather than send multiple tweets to a smaller group of followers.

Given this insight, I wanted to know the nature of the interactions Ronaldo has with his fans -- that is, what Ronaldo actually talks about in his messages to followers. To figure this out, I had to look at the text of the tweets themselves. Because I'm not very experienced with excel, I could not isolate the tweets that were replies to followers, so I had to create a pivot table containing the text from the entire sample of 800 tweets, which I called "text of tweets" on the spreadsheet. 

This move brought about two interesting insights. First, I realized that, in fact, the replies to followers were automatically isolated, because the pivot table organized all tweets in alphabetical order, and all replies began with the "@" symbol. Second, while scanning through the rest of the alphabatized list, I noticed that Ronaldo employs a series of predictable formulas for interacting with his followers. The tweets that are replies fit into one of two types: either Ronaldo is greeting a follower while also addressing that follower's home country, for example "Hello Venezuela" or "Hi Norway," or he is expressing thanks for support to a particular follower. Here, Ronaldo choses one follower as a placeholder to address all his followers, either by greeting that follower's home country or by publicizing his gratitude to all his fans. There is no way to ascertain how Ronaldo chooses the follower to which he'll respond -- whether it's completely random, or that he takes the time to read his tweets and selects specific ones for response. 

The second insight concerns the way that Ronaldo switches between his three main languages. I noticed that among these replies, and his tweets in general, Ronaldo alternates using English, Portuguese, and Spanish. These languages make sense, because English is widely known, Portuguese is his native language, and Spanish is the official language in the Madrid club team for which Ronaldo plays. Being at least conversant in all three languages, I was able to do some cursory analysis of the textual patterns that Ronaldo uses to address foreign language audiences. By far, Ronaldo tweets in English. His tweets in English mostly pose questions or make suggestions, like "check out," "want to," or "have you," which seem to be commercially driven, drawing attention to one of his many products or to his team's performance. His tweets in Portuguese are less numerous, and mostly ask the followers for predictions on the upcoming match. His tweets in Spanish are also closely associated with his matches. From this overview, I think it's fair to say that Ronaldo tweets in English to promote his personal brand, and in Portuguese and Spanish to promote his gameplay and the Madrid team. I'm sure that more analysis would reveal a more nuanced relationship between his international followers. Given more time, I would like to pursue how he engages different groups of fans through the rhetoric in his tweets. 

Ronaldo uses publicly-driven replies to specific users and switches between foreign languages in order to engage an international group of followers of over 39 million users. He spends a chunk of his time on twitter responding to followers individually, which represent entire countries, or his fans in general. Despite this activity, Ronaldo spends the majority of his twitter activity in promoting his personal brand, his products, and his team. 

In case you have trouble accesing the document, here is a shareable link for my data: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tblGNZblIZVPckCgTzWufgxdXT-WEnp7pqahkpE7kkA/edit?usp=sharing
