DB and I ran the hashtag #obamaspeech through TAGS at 5:58 pm on Sunday, December 6, 2015 just as President Obama was wrapping up his Oval Office Speech. Our selection was neither specific nor scientific, but it yielded 2970 tweets that used the hashtag covering only a 4-minute 13-second time span. This method provided a very brief but sizable sample of Twitter users’ initial response to the speech. Though the timing was not intentional, it ended up being an interesting four minutes because, as the speech was fairly wrapped up at this point, most people were not exactly live-tweeting, but they were offering their initial responses without having had much time to process the speech or to read up on other people’s responses to the speech. If time had allowed, it would have been interesting to establish a rubric to gauge the attitude of individual tweets—distinguishing their function as reporterly, critical, oppositional, laudatory, or other. This scale is not appropriate for this project, but from scanning the tweets manually, it seems that they are overwhelmingly negative—not just critical, but are virulently opposed to the President and/or the content of his speech. 

After toying around with the pivot tables a bit, I did not find anything that was particularly statistically significant or focused enough to produce a narrative, which might be a limitation of this dataset. With so many tweets in so little time, there was not much in the way of quantifiable trends. 

In effort to look at a smaller data set, I analyzed the tweets directed toward specific users. Of the 2970 tweets, only 90 were directly addressed to another user (indicated by @username), not including retweets (RT). Surprisingly, only twelve tweets were directed at President Obama himself (9 to @POTUS; 3 to @WhiteHouse), while 23 were addressed to @realDonaldTrump. All twelve of the tweets directed at the President were critical. These ranged from critical disagreement (from user @HarleiBre): “@POTUS I agree w/ some of what you said. But, I'm alil disappointed you repeated the bull.. #ObamaSpeech”; to virulent opposition (from user @newgypsydreams): “@potus We know you stand with the Muslims,you want our guns and your full of shit!Nothing new here! #tcot #ObamaSpeech”. 

At the beginning of the speech, Trump tweeted the following: “I will be re-tweeting some of your better, most imaginative and hopefully insightful tweets. Make them good (great)! Important stuff,” which explains how (relatively) so many tweets were directed toward him (in the end, he only retweeted seven people). From my dataset, all but two of the tweets are, while not supportive of Obama, were critical of Trump: (from @luxurybyjanice) “@realDonaldTrump America may need a new president but instead of knocking Obama's speech content, what would you propose? #ObamaSpeech” and (from @BlackChucksDrum “@realDonaldTrump you are a fucking idiot. #obamaspeech.”

Half of the tweets including @realDonaldTrump were identical and came from one user, @bythelake2. This tweet is a “hashtag salad” posted in response to other tweets and I suppose is intended to tag other users’ tweets as being in agreement with @bythelake2’s agenda: “@realDonaldTrump &amp; @AnnCoulter #ColationForTrump #TRUMP4POTUS #TRUMPTRAIN #Trump2016 #YUGE @DanScavino #ObamaSpeech.” They’re not so much a response to continue a conversation, but rather, their purpose seems to be to tag previously untagged tweets so that they can be seen as being part of the collective network of attitudes toward the speech. Looking at @bythelake2’s feed, she often copy-pastes these hashtag salads in reply to others’ tweets in order to aggregate them into a conversation. Conversation might not be the right word here—perhaps “Unidirectional Topic Aggregate” is a more fitting descriptor of what is going on here and elsewhere on social media. When users so diligently tag their own and each others’ content with a specific set of multiple hashtags and @ mentions, I wonder how they are using that data—or if anyone is using it at all.  

The conclusion of my narrative is similar to DB’s. #obamaspeech seems to be utilized mainly by those who oppose Obama, making me wonder if his supporters were using a different hashtag. If two different groups are using two different hashtags to talk about the same thing, how much conversation is really occurring? 

Much of my analysis involved a kind of rabbit-hole methodology that pulled me away from this dataset and into individual users’ Twitter feeds, mining for trends that I saw in my dataset to see if the were repeated in the users’ regular habits. This method of data-exploration (which could also be classified as “The Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon Method” or the “Wikipedia Wormhole Method”) is how many of us interact with social media content on the web. For me, then, the dataset was more of a jumping-off point and not necessarily an end in and of itself. 

Link to dataset: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1xUHx2pIqUwHmDgqC0irmRnDljPrB1pepXVixO38Zwhk/edit#gid=400689247
