  For our data mining project, Kyle and I decided to look at #SanBernardino on Twitter. Along with the archive spreadsheet attached, I also created a pivot table based on the different languages of the tweets collected in the data set. It was interesting to me that while English (1,971 tweets) was overwhelmingly the main language used in these tweets, there were also fourteen other languages represented including Spanish (74 tweets), Italian (30 tweets), and French (28 tweets).
  
	The vast majority of the tweets composed in English were re-tweets from major media outlets such as NPR, CNN, ABC, BBC, and so on. As such, these tweets were news related, outlining the timeline of events as they were occurring in live time, many of the tweets starting with phrases such as “This just in” or “Breaking news”. These tweets also focused on whether or not these events were domestic terrorism in relation to ISIS or an isolated case of workplace violence. These tweets also, understandably, took on the idea of gun control in the United States and how that may, or may not, have prevented this tragedy. While many of these tweets have a tone of concern and sympathy, there was also overwhelming anger in many of them, especially at politicians lack of response through legislation to regulate gun control. Overall, the majority of the tweets seemed to be related to politics or the event itself through the re-tweeting of links, pictures, and quotes from these large media outlets.
	
  Tweets in these other languages also consisted of re-tweets from these American news outlets (along with their own domestic outlets), but the tone of these tweets seemed to vary depending on the country. France, for example, seemed to mimic the anger and frustration being felt by many Americans, especially with this tragedy occurring so soon after the Paris attacks on November 13th. A tweet from user @charlemagne1968, for example, echoes pleas from the American public for politicians and government agencies to actually take action instead of making excuses for the individuals who are responsible for these tragedies.
  
  However, the tone seems to shift when looking at users whose tweets were in Spanish. These once again consisted of re-tweets from news outlets and were mainly political in nature, but they also contained a sense of national pride and took on a tone of condescension towards the United States. User @nadienkinporte (whose user language is set to Spanish on Twitter), for example, composed several tweets discussing how the violence and tragedy of San Bernardino was such a small and isolated incident compared to the violence experienced on a daily basis in certain parts of Mexico.
  
  To me, this difference demonstrates how a narrative can be covered up by other narratives. The narrative of tragedy due to gun violence in the United States is so pervasive that it became news, not only in the United States, but in other countries around the world as well. In light of statistics that have been released in the aftermath of this tragedy, we now know that these mass shootings in the United States are actually much more common than one would have assumed. Still, the narratives of tragedy in other countries, such as Mexico, are still overshadowed by these more prevalent “master narratives”. 
  
  This is reiterated by not only the data we collected on Twitter, but also through the network of social media as a whole. The fact that this event created headlines worldwide (including its online presence) demonstrates the existence of a master narrative that is continued and developed across national borders. By choosing to give preference to this narrative rather than others, a choice is being made to silence particular stories while giving voice to others.
  
  It is important to remember this data was collected on December 3rd, which is just one day after the actual event took place. Therefore, this data was still very reactionary with little factual evidence to support it. Events in the investigation were still unfolding and not enough time had passed for there to be substantial news reports on it yet. This could be why so many of the tweets were re-tweets from these news sources. This could also be why there was such a large disparity between tweets composed in English versus tweets composed in other languages. It would be interesting to repeat this data mining every couple of days as new information is released to see how the trends connected to this hashtag change and evolve and how the relationships people in other countries have to this narrative shifts.
